Hey guys, it's basically what the title says. I want to take two CS senior classes. I have taken all the classes that I liked and I already have a job, I'm just looking for easy classes for spring 2021 semester. It will be my last semester. I have already taken CS 450 and 484. I'm taking 468 and 471 next semester and I need two more classes with it. Please let me know if there are classes you guys found easy and not time taking because I'm also planning to do internship part time with my classes, so I won't be able to spend a lot of time in classes. I will appreciate any help!
If either of these classes are available I recommend you take them: CS477 - Mobile Development (White): Weekly Labs which don't take too long, basic Java, 2 Normal Projects, and 1 Course Project. CS465 - Computer Architecture (Zhong): Every few weeks there's an assignment which you can work with a partner. Concepts aren't too difficult. Midterm was easy. If you don't have a hatred for assembly then this course should be fine.
I wanted to take 477, but they're not offering it next semester. I don't really like assembly lol, but it looks like I have to do it for 471 anyways, so might as well take this class. Thanks for the suggestion.
You don't do assembly in 471.
Oh really? I thought we did.
Nope. You program in C. CS465 was a lot of fun though. Would never do it for a living but as a class it was cool :)
That's good to know that we'll be using C. Thank you for the suggestion.
Is CS465 not a required course anymore?
Not bad at all. Taking it right now.
Looking at the classes, I'd say 455 and 480 are probably your best bets. They're both kind of a pain but not really difficult. Mostly it's just remembering a whole bunch of things. If you take 480, take it with Tecuci. Sean Luke is one of those professors who really wants to run a rigorous/meaningful class. 465 is also a good choice, as Neoseekr said. Which two of the three is easiest is kind of dependent on your comfort areas. Have a gander at their syllabi. Gingold is supposed to be a good professor, so 451 might also be an option. I don't know how hard the course is. Probably math-filled though. 482 could be a gamble if you're feeling lucky - I've never seen it offered at the undergrad level; no idea if it's rigorous or not.
I'm thinking about taking 482 and math 446. My friend said this math class is easy. I saw we have a new professor for 482 this semester. I guess I'll try him and see if I get lucky? Sometimes new professors can be really good. I've heard 480 is in lisp. Idk how I feel about lisp.
For Tecuci, only 2 of 9 HW assignments are in LISP. Do what you'd like, of course; just fyi.
Oh really? What are the other 7 homeworks on? Also, how long does it usually take to finish one homework? And what about exams? Thanks for the help!
The class is just a bunch of separate topics that don't build on each other. It's mostly just discussion of the topics; there's very little programming in the class. The homeworks are mostly just manually doing some algorithm seen in lecture. They take a couple hours each, I'd say. Depends greatly on your comfort level with the material, of course. I took CS580 with Tecuci last semester when we went online half way through, right around midterm season. He made the decision to cancel the midterm and have it on the same day as the final. That made them way worse because there was so much content we had to remember. The questions weren't that hard, it was just a bunch of different stuff to know. For me, the midterm and final were ~30 question multiple choice / fill in the blank (that is, give the correct value from some computation). I dont think that is the normal exam format; I think that was his kind of improv exam format that would work online. He could have of course just used a normal exam and told us to scan/upload it, but he seemed opposed to that or something? All that to say I'm not sure how hard your exams will be.
It doesn't sound too bad except the exams. May be he needs to post a guide or something? But I might take that class actually. Thanks for the suggestion
Is it a data oriented class where I can take concepts to industry though? Databases and Data Mining were very much this way, so I just want something that I have use for in the future.
I'm not sure what you mean by data-oriented. 480 is a collection of different 'clever' algorithms. Minmax trees, A*, logic deduction, constraint satisfaction, etc. It is NOT machine learning like neural networks and support vector machines, although I believe perceptrons were covered. Most jobs will not have you doing exactly what you do in the class, if that's what you're wondering. But much better to have it than not if you're looking to go into ML.