Labs are easy but struggling with projects in CS 262. Since this is classified as lower level programming I'm considering if I'm up for the challenge for upper level courses. I don't attend office hours because I heard there's not a lot of info they are allowed to discuss so I'm a bit confused on what would be acceptable conversation. From experience would it be accurate to assess if I struggle with 262 projects that likely suggests I'm in over my head and probably unable to continue the CS track? Insight and personal opinion welcomed. I like CS and believe I'd enjoy a career in the field. Just not feeling like CS enjoys me.
At this level, you have shown competency enough in the major to be successful. Don't take this class as the measure of your future success. I too struggled in 262 and I believed failed it the first time. The projects are quite long and C is an entirely different beast of a programming language. Keep in mind nearly every core class after this except for 310 will be in C, so this suffering isn't for nothing. Have perseverance, as this major certainly tests this from you.
Thank you!! Congrats on getting it 2nd go round! I haven't met with advisor to discuss next round of classes but degree works makes my head spin. The course numbers mean nothing to me so I'm trying to navigate the paths. Several are electives, but as of now I'm clueless on which ones are next (without having to individually read each prerequisite.) Is there a standard sequence to follow?
I struggled like crap in 262. But no challenge has ever or will ever stop me. Keep going and conquer that shit. :)
Also, lower level programming does not mean that is lower level course as in "200 level classes vs 300 level classes". Read this to understand a little better. Make no mistake that CS262 is a hard class. If you come out the other side victorious then you'll be good. I suggest you try to understand during vacation or during summer break the parts that you didn't understand. You don't have to study all day every day (a few hours every now and then should be enough). Understanding the material is extremely critical in doing good in 300/400 level CS classes. If you barely pass a CS class but feel shaky in knowledge that's a red flag. So study during your free time until you get it!
If you haven't sought help, consider the CEC Peer Mentor service: https://cec.gmu.edu/academics/current-student-resources/peer-mentor-center
I wouldn't go as far as to say you should reconsider your major and career options. However, it's a good time to reconsider how you code and what's going on. I'm not sure if you have async online or in person but some academic things you could do is to read/skim ahead, attend lectures, and ask questions about the topics you're struggling with. You should also definitely attend office hours and ask questions. To think that they're pointless when you're struggling is wrong. You can't just show up and ask how do I code this part of my project or how do this project. But you can definitely go to talk about specific coding questions like how do I allocate memory or how do I assign variables? You can talk about your algorithms with the professor, and they may or may not give you hints but you gotta read the project clearly and solve the problem yourself. In term of 262 projects, if you're struggling take a step back and look at the problem again. Try to solve the problem and come up with an algorithm. If you think you have a good/strong algorithms then try to code it. Throughout this process where are you struggling with? Algorithm or the language? I don't know who your professor is, but it might not be you and the professor's teaching method might not work for you personally. If that's the case you need to do additional studying outside of class. In my own experience, 262 projects were extremely straightforward and all the tools you needed to do them were given to you in the lectures and project guidelines. The problem is most people don't take their time to read the project descriptions/guidelines. So my advice is to read those slowly. Anyway, CS is a problem solving major, if you're struggling you need to debug and figure out what the issue(s) is/are, and why you're struggling.
If you want I made a study guide for that class and it helped me pass final. I got a 59 on midterm and managed to get a 71 on final from studying the guide maybe it will help you?
Cool. As long as it's allowed then sure! It's a study guide so I don't see why not. I know CS dept is particular about stuff so they scare me at times. did you do like a quizlet or is it something you can inbox?
Something you can study, I just took the material from the lectures, tips for how to approach the projects and exams. Don't share with anyone else cause its an informal study guide with memes. I actually shared it with my professor and she said she liked it so I assume it's good
Automod has removed your post/comment due to low comment karma. You can improve you comment karma by being active on Reddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
To all: Wow. Thanks so much for the advice. Honestly thought I'd get more feedback like "yeah, if you can't cut that class first time through then CS is hopeless." Appreciate the encouragement and support. Nice to see I attend the same uni with students like you. More feedback than expected so I'll go back over these again soon and try to heed some of the tips. Good luck to you all as we finish out the semester. Workload already shows it's gonna be a wild ride til finals.
Struggle and failure is apart of the process with anything in life, you encounter it rather you like it or not. This field is challenging and classes don't determine your success in it, it's just your ticket to the degree that will open more opportunities for ya and teaches you the foundations. I was close to failing out of the major about a year ago and I was still working internships as an SWE even throughout that struggle. I was doing harder stuff at work than in class at most points. The point of saying that is just because you're struggling with the curriculum does not mean you're not cut out to be in CS or that you're not a good programmer. Face that shit and keep finding a way if you want it. Some people are good at school some people aren't. But what you can control is whether you're going to give up or not. There's students with top scores who can still end up struggling in CS when they get out into industry. The grades don't make you it's just an assessment to move forward. Real life is a lot more unstructured just keep learning and keep working towards what you want to do in life. Don't be a slave to the structure and keep confidence and positivity in yourself.