Generally, every GMU professor in the CS department is very good, with each and every one helping you learn, understand, and internalize the topics in an fun way. Some standouts here are: Kevin Andrea, the GOAT when it comes to the C programming language and its intricacies Katherine Russel: Her classes are a little tough (took her for CS483), but I would say it is generally fair Qiang Zheng: When it comes to topics in CS471, he's pretty good, despite the class being really tough. In any case, you really can't go wrong with any professor for OS (apart from one I will mention later...) Wassim Masri: Again, generally very good (imo) and explains things in good detail Edit: Completely forgot to add Dr. Deng Ping to this list! Not only is she an absolutely wonderful human being, she is amazing at what she does and will personally ensure you understand both the theoretical and physical aspects of databases! Edit: Running list of highly recommended CS professors to take classes with: Dr. Mark Snyder Dr. Ivan Avramovic Dr. Songqing Chen Daniel Barbará Now, as far as bad professors, there really aren't any bad ones. They are all quite good, and while in some areas they may fall a little flat, they make up for it. This professor, however, is the exception: Sapna Gambhir is absolutely horrible. The following is mostly under the lens of networking (CS455), but from what I heard, most of if not all of these points also apply to CS 471. She was constantly underprepared, unwilling to answer legitimate questions, and furthermore, was not available on Piazza like the TA was. Furthermore, she would overload us with work (I do not say this lightly, we would literally have a homework, a project, and a lab all in one week, all due on the same day), and most times, she would not have appropriate answer keys for the assignments. Similarly, there was approximately one quiz per week, which for the most part was fine, but again she would not have the correct answers for those quizzes most of the time, and we would need to ask her to release the answers so we could study. Furthermore, regarding the projects, most were fine, and not too complex, but all suffered from the same problem: a lack of direction and clarity regarding specifications. Similarly, regarding the exams, there were two, one midterm, and one cumulative final (where we needed at least a 40% to not fail). The midterm was relatively simple, and asked direct questions that for the most part, addressed content well. The final, on the other hand, was not only nothing like the midterm, and asked extremely vague questions that were sparsely covered in her already abysmally structured lectures. In all, do not, under any circumstances, take a single class with her unless you have absolutely no choice in the matter. If you have the option between taking a class with her that is necessary (like CS471), and waiting until the following semester and taking the same class with a different professor, choose the latter; you will thank yourself in the long run. Same applies for those of you who have signed up for a class with her next semester. tl;dr: Take classes with any other professor, and you will have a decent if not excellent time. When it comes to Sapna Gambhir, run for the hills! edit 2: Oh, yeah, I've also heard horror stories about Gonzales, although I haven't had the (dis)pleasure of having her. Probably don't take her unless you have no choice in the matter either.
I'd add Dr. Mark Snyder to the good list (CS463). It's a shame the class he teaches is on the theory side so most people taking it won't be interested in it. However, he does provide a lot of support and is extremely easy to talk to as well. He still sounds excited about the stuff he teaches. Highly recommend. Dr. Ivan Avramovic. I only had him for CS 483, but he made it a breeze. Tries his best to make exams fair (like Andrea), doesn't throw any curve ball questions, and will repeat and explain everything different ways when you come to his office hours. Dr. Songqing Chen is a solid guy for cs471 too. Grading scale is more lenient than some of the others from what I can tell (C: >= 63%, B-: >= 70%, A- : >= 85%). His sections are the ones that meet once a week though, so it's painful sitting through all of it.
I never had the pleasure, but I have heard good things about both Snyder and Avramovic (from both his students and Andrea)!
No one beats HER at GMU or anywhere else.
Oh yeah, I've heard horror stories about her before. Even so, for upper-level CS (which I believe only Gambhir teaches) Gambhir is a pain, for the reasons above
Also, forgot to mention, but if you take a look at her RMP right now, there are many posts which are very clearly written by her in attempts to get students to take her class in future semesters... Look for the 1.0 quality/4.0 difficulty comment for CS455 on that page, and that sums things up quite succinctly. I had more to say that could not fit into 350 characters, which is why I made this post rather than a RMP posting.
I took CS 584 with Daniel Barbará and he was great. He's very strict and a tough grader, but he knows his shit and if you put in the effort in his class you with learn . I took CS 580 with Brian Hrolenok and he wasn't bad, but not great either. He knows the material very well, but he wasn't the best at answering students' questions. If you asked a question in lecture, he would often just repeat the same content that you'd asked about. Significantly less strict than Barbará, so easier overall, but I felt like I had to work more on my own to get a deeper understanding of the material.
I can agree with that comment regarding Hrolenok, as I had him for CS211 in freshman year and CS480 this semester. He wasn't the best at answering questions, and because of it I had to work a little harder to understand the material, but he is not the worst by any means.
Idk... I have taken 3 classes with Prof. Barbara at this point (CS484, 747, 782) and I'm starting to realize that he knows some things, but he does not have a good understanding of others. His lectures are also not at all engaging and many of the class activities for his advanced courses are just running a premade Jupyter Notebook which can take hours for training larger models (often beyond the time class is meant to end). There is no reason he shouldn't just give us the outputs already generated, since all we had to do is click run and then wait.
Well you've had more classes with him than me, so you'd probably know better. The Jupyter Notebook experience sounds frustrating (I had a couple of AIT classes that were like that).
I just finished 471 with Gambhir. Got a B+, but yeah she's not a good teacher. Glad I'm done with that class. I wish Andrea could teach all my CS classes he was insanely good
If Andrea would teach all CS classes GMU would be a Top 10 ranked CS program for sure. On par with OMSCS
Same, I got an A in networking, but how the class was handled left a bad taste in my mouth.
Congrats on graduating! I can't wait to get out of here and just get a job.. Well, I'm taking 455 with her this summer. Your story kind of freaks me out, but it's my only option since I'm short on prerequisites for other classes. How did you manage to score an A? What did you study with? Any tips would be super helpful !
1) Start assignments ASAP. That is literally the only way to combat "the flood" 2) There is a website for the textbook: use it, abuse it. Sometimes, they are the only way you can do well on the graded quizzes. 3) There are multiple resources online that explain the topics much better than she does. Use those as well!
Had Gambhir this semester and can vouch that she's horrible. I made the mistake of taking her for both 471 and 455, and while her 471 class was really bad, her 455 class was abysmal . Assignments were vague and confusing, and Piazza questions were literally never answered. Her lectures were complete ass to the point that I just stopped going and read the textbook instead. Strongly recommend taking anyone else, don't make the same mistake I did.
I can recommend Ivan Avramovic. His voice is pretty monotone which can make his lectures boring at times but his slides are very well put together and he's very helpful when asking questions
Zheng has emotional issues
why, was about to take the course
Professor qiang zeng is a weak person and feels powerful by talking down on students for not being "smart" and grading really harshly. Loves docking points and messing students grades up secretly i wrote that in my notes when i took his class
I got an A- in the class, and I struggled immensely. I would say that he doesn't like students who disrupt his class, and he can get a little angry (rightfully so, imo) that you apparently aren't taking the class seriously by partaking in side conversations not related to lecture. I wouldn't fret too much about it, just stay on top of things, be cognizant of the discussions that take place in class, and always attempt to answer questions. It is better to be wrong or partially right than never attempt to add to the conversation at all. Also, ask questions, both before and after class, it never hurts!
Much appreciated, this is quite helpful information for setting up the expectation of the class.
And also, he is pretty good at listening to his students. Now, don't get me wrong, the projects are brutally difficult in CS471, and the midterm and final ask some pretty specific stuff, but for how he teaches the class, it is all within reason. Also, in my class in Fall 2023, he saw that the midterm scores were a bit lower than expected (avg. was a 70, when he expected closer to 80-85), asked us what aspects about the midterm were difficult (overwhelming consensus was the free-response question format, and the slightly tricky wording of the non-psuedo code questions) and he made the final all multiple choice and fill-in-the-blank to help us. He's a nice and accommodating professor when it comes down to it, especially if you respect his time, because he definitely respects yours!
Brodsky is pretty awesome, if you're going to take a DB class. The two old farts in SWE really suck, but fortunately they're both gone now. Awfult and his sidekick.
I loved them. Where did they go?
Who cares? gone is good, IMO
Anybody have information on grad school professors to stay away from? I'm starting the Computer Science Foundations certificate and then transferring into the SWE program afterwards.. My first professor is Gerald Kowalski
Dunno about the ones to stay away from, but if you're interested in real time systems, I'd suggest taking Rob Pettit. I think he usually teaches some of the "special topics" sections (is. CS 692, CS 695, and SWE 699). He'll occasionally teach SWE 621.
I had Gambhir for CS471, and it was an experience LOL. I ended up with an A for her class, but that was because I was always running behind her in terms of homework and projects. She is very sweet when you get to know her, allowing me to go to her office hours and check through previous midterms and solve problems there. I feel that she was insecure in the beginning, but became more comfortable as the semester progressed. However, I agree with your points. The first few lectures I was ???? the entire time. Asking her questions didn't seem to do much either. The final was very strange. She did focus on questions that students missed on, so even though some classes I didn't understand her lectures she gave hints but not hints? I can't explain it. The 40% final didn't bother me as much because I've taken classes with that weight grade (Discrete math). If you have multiple intense classes that need equal attention, you will become completely lost and frustrated. I had a part-time load (intentional since it was her first semester) and I scraped by OK. My only recommendations if you HAVE to take her is to read the textbook before going into class, and try to go to her office hours as much as you can to check through your previous work to understand her exam patterns (I tanked my first exam, but had one of the highest second). I would have preferred Andrea who was teaching 571 but I wasn't a MS student.
Yeah, I and others agree on this one point: Conversationally, she is very nice, but that "she gave hints but not hints" comment is quite true. I didn't even need to spend as much time in CS480 and OR441 as I did in CS455, and while my other classes aren't the most complex, they definitely needed equal attention. Throughout the semester I constantly felt like I wasn't doing enough, even though I definitely was. I absolutely agree with that entire last paragraph. If you have to take her, read the textbook, and constantly check in with her regarding the work you are doing, to ensure it is "up to snuff". As for the final... well, over my 4 years here, I have never had a single final give me a migraine in the actual exam room, and I am well-known in my friend group for being over-prepared... so that was a first...
I'm surprised no one has mentioned Socrates yet! I know it's an unpopular opinion but I actually like him! I had him for 310 and he was actually pretty chill. A lot of bad reviews come from 211 since it's the "weed out" class. He is a bit harsh on projects and exams, but he is a fantastic lecturer and I learned a lot. Definitely wouldn't put him with the likes of Andrea or the others, but he's definitely not bad!
anyone know zoo zaman? i've got him next semester for 112.
Had him for CS330, I just transferred from NOVA but he was one of the best professors I've had.
Automod has removed your post/comment due to low comment karma. A member of the mod team may manually approve your comment upon review. You can improve you comment karma by being active on Reddit. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
Russell was a nightmare for me. Extremely condescending and not very helpful in office hours.
I could get that at times, but for me and the rest of my class at least, if you paid attention, and were overall intent on learning the subjects, she was amicable.
Her 471 lectures weren't the best and were hard to follow and I failed bad on the midterm but not to bad. I had the exact same thinking as everyone else but after wards I started going to to office hours and she's excellent at explaining things during office hours. Maybe the one on one setting did me justice but literally every lecture I went to office hours right after and had her go over it with me. Her final did have vague questions though, I agree but it was still easy if we had put the right stuff on our cheat sheet. The 40% on the final was a big plus and the fact you could get a 70 and still get a B in the class is good too. I started participating just a little more in class to and actually saying something when I didn't understand something and didn't let up till I didn't. Plus no one really raised their hand whenever she'd ask if anyone had any confusion. You'd think with almost everyone agreeing they were lost that entire class more people would've raised their hands, gone to office hours etc...? Shes really not that bad. And I think half of the people complaining honestly didn't try to fight their struggle and confusion with that class. In fact every week I went to office hours after the midterm no one was there at all. She in fact seemed happy and alittle surprised someone showed up. Yes you shouldn't have to do that but thats what it's for, and I'm sure she can schedule a zoom meeting or the TAs can set up something. It's better then just saying this teacher sucks and accepting defeat which in sure happened to a lot of people. Project wise I worked for weeks on the last one until I gave up and emailed her that I needed help and I'm not gonna keep sitting around. She contacted the TAs the next day and I was able to get help during their office hours and get a good grade on the project. No one really showed up for TA hours either though maybe I didn't stay long enough to see so maybe some did. The class did have a heavy work load but we all expected that. It is apparently the hardest Cs class here along with known for having a heavy workload. This is just my 2 cents on it for anyone who's forced to take her later.
You need to add Grigory yarlotslev to the good professor list.
Yes Gonzalez is very bad. CS department just added a new summer class CS 262 under Professor Itani today because there were too many people who failed Gonzalez class and there are no other options.
What about Maha Shamseddine the goat I had her for 310, 468, and 555
I had Shamseddine for 468, and she was great!
I would have to disagree about professor Gambir. I had her for CS471 and she was good. I never had a problem with her. She's clear, explains things well enough and I felt she was fair when it comes to hw, quizzes, projects, and exams. 471 projects are hard because they involve you thinking outside the box using learned knowledge from class. The HW, quizzes, exams are extremely straightforward. As most of this are algorithms and I would say is a bit more on the theoretical side. Also don't forget that a lot of the materials are standard for all sections and for all professors teaching. And I find that typically the exams, HW, and projects are similar throughout. I'm not sure but I also believe grading is scaled similarly across 471, and there is a slight curve built into it. For example, 90 is an A for the class unlike other courses. With all that said, I think she can talk a bit fast and she does have an accent which can make it hard to understand her sometime. Her examples and metaphors are heavily influenced by Asian culture, so for someone who's not familiar with Asian culture it can be hard to understand at times. I would not avoid her at all because she gives it her all when teaching. Another caveat is that I also didn't quite need the extra help because I attend lectures most days and didn't have extra questions. When I do she answers them either before, during or after class for me. However, I know she offers and has office hours if anyone needed extra help from her.
Now, just for context, I come from a Indian family, so the accent (while hard to understand at times) did not bother me, and that really wasn't my problem with her. I also didn't need much extra help, I would stay after class and discuss things with both her and other students; however, I have gone to her office hours (primarily to look over a quiz near the beginning of the semester) and while yes, she was helpful, I got the feeling she was a little "annoyed" by me being there? All I really asked during that visit was to look at the quiz questions again (for the quiz that week, because she did not release answers) and ask a couple of basic questions regarding the content. And, I do have to admit, some of the algorithms ( link-state routing, Dijkstra) are explained well enough, but she doesn't really focus on them enough in lecture. It felt like for slides that were important, she would spend all of 30 seconds covering (because she would spend half of class discussing things related to topics, not write anything much on a whiteboard and then say "review the following (10) slides for 5 minutes, and ask questions," but slides that were inconsequential and, in the end, not tested on, she would spend 20-30 minutes on. I also am pretty flexible when it comes to learning styles, and I do not say things like this lightly. I just feel like for the general student, she is not a very good fit, and it seems that is the case for those who took her CS 455 this semester.
I think this list is pretty good. I've gotta add Shammsedine tho for the bad professors I had her for 310 and 468. 310 was much worse; very disorganized when lecturing, awful tests, vague projects, there was a whole scandal where she split her students of from the main piazza forum where all the other 310 students were, so we couldn't see their questions, other profs slides, etc. I literally have no idea why she did that. 468 was a bit better. She's mellowed out, tests were more reasonable, but she's still veery disorganized. The saving grace is she curves pretty substantially
lol I thought 310 With shams was a breeze. I wouldn't put her at the top of the list for sure but I wouldn't say she's bad. I literally have no idea why she did that. I don't think she knew it'd be a side effect. I'm also fairly certain the decision of making her own p3 and p4 wasn't brought up when they enrolled us all in the joint thread. Otherwise, we would've started off in separated from Russell and Zhong sections. Undeniably, it could have been handled better.
Nah bro sham is the goat I don't take this slander
Fr idk what bro is cooking. I had her for CS 555 this semester and she was great. While her lectures can be a little dull, she makes up for it by being super lenient on grading and being helpful during office hours. There was this one time she extended the deadline of a project by 2-3 days, twice! Also, her midterms and exams are relatively easy and reasonable. Best part is: they are both 100% multiple choice.
I second this! Being in Shammsedine's 468 class literally helped me make sure I would not go crazy in OS, lol
If your only criteria is how easy she is, that's fine
I feel like it's important to include maybe some of the obvious professors to the upcoming CS students and a couple professors who are down right horrible are Professor Socrates for the freshmen courses and Professor Tecuci for 480 (Intro to AI)
I only had Socrates for cs 310 and thought he was pretty good. Lectures were good, liked questions although his projects can be challenging. I would take again, preferred him to Zhong.