I'm attempting to create a schedule for the next 2-3 semesters. What are some of the classes that need the most work? Just those that need the most effort outside of the classroom (homework/projects, not studying). I don't want to unintentionally enroll in a bunch of strange classes at once. I'm a transfer from NOVA, currently taking CS310, CS262, CS306, CS330. We are just on the second week but I can start to see that CS310 will require 10-15 hours per week outside of class. The rest of the classes seem to be under 5-8 hours per week outside of class.
CS310 is definitely project heavy and requires doing the projects diligently but they're not too challenging if you understand the concepts in class. CS262 - I took this class with Mengistu who is no longer at the university. This class was also project heavy but the test cases were lenient (or there were none, I never found out). The exams for this class were quite hard but he ended up curving in the end. CS306 - Took this class last sem and it was not difficult as long as you do the readings. All of the rest of the work in the class boiled down to following the directions and didn't involve too much thinking. It definitely will eat your time though since the work can be quite tedious. CS330 - This class was easily the hardest class I've taken at mason and consumed almost all of my time last semester. As the concepts get introduced, they seem very simple but once you get the homework each week you will realize that the problems can be quite challenging compared to the examples in class. I spent more time on this class than any other class last semester.
Sheesh you had 330 with Richards m. I'm taking the class right now with Ivan. Think it will be easier? Also does it pick up fast? Rn it's not too bad but I'm a bit worried.
No I had it with Baldimtsi last semester. I'm not sure about it with Ivan but the examples we had in class were sooooo simple compared to what was in the homework and on the exams. It picks up fast so look forward to it!
CS367 - Systems Programming is very time consuming b/c most of us have forgot C by the time we get there, so you have to find time to review this while learning new concepts. 3rd project you get a full month to do, and for good reason. CS321 - During class you're not learning about programming, yet you have a semester long programming project in which you will have to teach yourself what you need In order to be successful. This is done in two week long "sprints" so you'll have adequate amount of time to find out how to do stuff. This will likely be your first class in which you're not given a template starter code. CS471 - Operating Systems. It doesn't matter how well you do in 367, this one will be another huge time commitment. Try not to take it with CS483 CS483 - you'll have to spend a lot of time reviewing and practicing. This and 471 are the most difficult "core" classes. Electives wise.
CS487 - Intro to Cryptography: It's like 330, but twice as hard. Up there with 471 and 483 as one of the most difficult, and as such will need a lot of extra effort outside of class. The other electives you can take aren't as time consuming, maybe except 480. Cs450 I'd say is the easiest CS elective. MATH446 is also really easy if you want an easy "CS related" elective.
CS484-data mining is a useful class but I'd suggest taking it after 450 even though it's not a pre-req. You'd have an easier time. Note: I didn't take, and will not take any classes related to language processing/compilers/graphics/computer Vision, so I can't speak on those.
Lmao everyone I knew who took 487 said the exact same thing about that class. I took the grad version which is 587 but it was just as hard. But with that said, I absolutely recommend taking cryptography. It was one of the most interesting classes I've ever taken and it made me fall in love with cryptography and theoretical CS.
Automod has removed your post/comment due to low comment karma. If you need your post to be approved, please contact the mods via modmail. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.